Q1 What is Agile methodology?
  
Agile is a software development methodology where work is delivered in small iterations called sprints instead of one large release.
Teams collaborate closely, get continuous feedback from stakeholders, and quickly adapt to changing requirements.
It focuses on frequent delivery, customer value, and continuous improvement.
Frameworks like Scrum and Kanban are commonly used to implement Agile.

Q2 What is Git and GitHub? 
  Git is a distributed version control system used to track code changes and manage collaboration between developers
  GitHub is a cloud platform that hosts Git repositories and provides collaboration features like pull requests and code reviews.
  Developers typically clone a repo, create branches, commit changes, push them to GitHub, and merge them through pull requests after review.
  
Q3 I developed a small application using Node.js, Express.js, and MongoDB. It works fast on my local machine, 
but after deploying it to AWS EC2 the API responses become slow. How can I find the cause of the slow performance?
1️⃣ Check EC2 CPU / memory
2️⃣ Check Node.js logs
3️⃣ Measure API response time
4️⃣ Check MongoDB queries and indexes
5️⃣ Check network latency
6️⃣ Enable slow API logging
7️⃣ Check event loop blocking
8️⃣ Run Node in cluster mode
9️⃣ Enable compression
🔟 Check AWS metrics

1.Check EC2 CPU / Memory
SSH into the server and run top or htop to see if CPU or memory usage is high, which can slow down the application
2.Check Node.js Logs
Check application logs (for example pm2 logs or console logs) to identify errors, crashes, or slow database calls.
3.Measure API Response Time
Use tools like curl or Postman to measure how long the API takes to respond.
4️. Check MongoDB Queries and Indexes
Verify that database queries are optimized and indexes exist for frequently searched fields.
5.heck the network delay between EC2 and database using commands like:
ping mongodb-host
High latency can slow API responses.
6️.Enable Slow API Logging
Add middleware to log request execution time and identify slow endpoints.
7️.Check Event Loop Blocking
Ensure no heavy synchronous operations (like large loops or blocking code) that block the Node.js event loop.
8️.Run Node in Cluster Mode
Use PM2 cluster mode so Node.js can utilize all CPU cores.
9️. Enable Compression
Use gzip compression to reduce response size and improve API response speed.
10.Check AWS Metrics
Monitor CPU, memory, network, and disk usage in AWS CloudWatch to detect performance bottlenecks.

Q4 what is database pooling?
Connection pooling means maintaining a set of open database connections that can be reused by multiple requests instead of creating a new connection each time.
Creating a database connection is expensive and slow, so pooling improves performance.
Thread Pooling:-Thread pooling means maintaining a group of worker threads that execute tasks concurrently 
instead of creating a new thread for each task.

Object pooling:- reuses existing objects instead of creating new ones to reduce memory allocation and improve performance.

Q5 what is Data partitioning ?
Data partitioning means splitting a large dataset into smaller parts (partitions) so that data can be stored and processed more efficiently.

Q6 What is WebSocket?
WebSocket is a communication protocol that provides real-time,
two-way (full-duplex) communication between client and server over a single persistent connection
Q7 What is a TCP Connection?
A TCP connection means a reliable communication channel established between a client and a server before data is transferred.







